---
layout: post
title: Postdoc Research Associate Opportunity for Coastal Ocean Modeling in Los Alamos, New Mexico
---

## Applications will be reviewed as received-- [Apply now!](https://lanl.jobs/los-alamos-nm/postdoc-research-associate-for-coastal-ocean-modeling/203EDC6DF9C548EB93ABC1B4474929A1/job/)

<!--
## What You Will Do

The COSIM team seeks applications from diverse candidates with expertise in
coastal, ocean and/or land modeling to work on coastal ocean modeling
development, which may include processes such as inundation, sediment transport
and vegetation, tides, and mixing. We particularly welcome research proposals
for development of novel coastal ocean physics, broadly defined but potentially
including but not limited to sub-grid bathymetry approaches, innovative scalar
transport schemes, mixed-dimensional and multiscale modeling, reduced-order
modeling, coupled land-ocean approaches, etc. The successful candidate will be
part of a multidisciplinary team developing an innovative decadal-scale coastal
model for real-world application. Results from this work will be presented in
conferences and published in peer-reviewed journals. The initial appointment is
for two years, with a possible third year extension depending on performance
and funding availability.

## What You Need

*Desired Skills:* We seek candidates with diverse research experience with a
preference for individuals with one or more of the following:experience and
knowledge of computational physics, coastal modeling, and/or climate modeling;
experience in construction and application of physical models; programing
expertise; and the analysis and incorporation of data and observations for
model development and testing. The candidate will have also demonstrated
scientific excellence as evidenced by submission and publication of authored
publications in refereed journals, and/or the experience and ability to create
or improve computational software.The ability to work in a highly collaborative
team setting is also a requirement.

*Education:* A Ph.D. in earth sciences, civil engineering, geophysics, fluid
dynamics, climate modeling, computational science, physics, applied
mathematics, or a closely related field. Exceptional candidates with a M.S. and
relevant experience will also be considered.

*Notes to Applicants:* In addition to applying on-line, send a curriculum
vitae, digitized copies of transcripts, names of three references, and a
one-page cover letter detailing qualifications, research interests, and a
proposed research topic (1-3 paragraphs) to Phillip Wolfram
(pwolfram@lanl.gov). Please include “Coastal Ocean Modeling 2018 Postdoc
Search” in the email subject line. Applications will be reviewed as received.
We expect to fill up to 2 postdoc positions by August 2018.

*Additional Details:* Position does not require a security clearance. Selected
candidates will be subject to drug testing and other pre-employment background
checks.

*New-Employment Drug Test:* The Laboratory requires successful applicants to
complete a new-employment drug test and maintains a substance abuse policy that
includes random drug testing.

Candidates may be considered for a Director's Fellowship and outstanding
candidates may be considered for the prestigious Darleane Christian Hoffman,
Richard P. Feynman, J. Robert Oppenheimer, or Frederick Reines Fellowships. For
the named fellowship, the research scope can be broadened to include any topic
of mutual interest in the broad coastal and ocean modeling arena, e.g., global
climate modeling, computational physics and algorithms, high performance
computing in heterogeneous architectures, remote sensing, data analysis, data
assimilation, and machine learning. For general, salary, and benefits
information go to Postdoc Program.

## Equal Opportunity

Los Alamos National Laboratory is an equal opportunity employer and supports a
diverse and inclusive workforce. All employment practices are based on
qualification and merit, without regards to race, color, national origin,
ancestry, religion, age, sex, gender identity, sexual orientation or
preference, marital status or spousal affiliation, physical or mental
disability, medical conditions, pregnancy, status as a protected veteran,
genetic information, or citizenship within the limits imposed by federal laws
and regulations. The Laboratory is also committed to making our workplace
accessible to individuals with disabilities and will provide reasonable
accommodations, upon request, for individuals to participate in the application
and hiring process. To request such an accommodation, please send an email to
applyhelp@lanl.gov or call 1-505-665-4444 option 1.

## Where You Will Work

Los Alamos National Laboratory is a multidisciplinary research institution
engaged in science and engineering on behalf of national security. This postdoc
position is within the Climate, Ocean and Sea-Ice Modeling (COSIM) Team that
develops advanced ocean and ice models for the study of climate and climate
change, e.g., the Model for Prediction Across Scales Ocean (MPAS-O) within the
Department of Energy’s Energy Exascale Earth System Model (E3SM). Within this
broad activity, a focus is on the role of coastal zone infrastructure
adaptation, ecogeomorphology for regional climate adaptation, the role of ocean
mesoscale eddies in the climate system, and the role of the ocean and ice
systems in the carbon cycle and sea-level rise.

*Location:* Los Alamos, NM, US

*Organization Name:* T-3/Fluid Dynamics And Solid Mechanics

*Job Title:* Postdoc Research Associate for Coastal Ocean Modeling

*Appointment Type:* Postdoc

*Req ID:* IRC61729
-->
